Git/Github within an IDE Notes

Specific to eclipse for now.

putting a project under version control within an IDE requires a little thought.
project = project in IDE
repo/repository = the git and GitHub repository that the project is stored in.

general creation process- git local
1. purpose: this gets project under version control in local
2. in IDE create a new project
3. in IDE setup a new repo
    1. open window\show view\git\repositories- new tab in bottom
4. in cli- under base repo dir add a .gitignore file with at least bin [for java 
projects].  and probably build and target to.  don’t put class/compiled/derived 
files under version control- only source files.
5. in IDE open git staging view
    1. open windows\show view\git\staging- new tab in bottom
6. do initial commit with note
7. concern: duplicate dir:  repo and project name being the same creates a double 
directory- one after the other.  I feel this is not right, but otherwise I am jamming 
multiple projects into one repo.  still have some learning to do here.  Other projects I 
see online are not doing the setup this way, but haven’t figured it out yet.

general share process- GitHub
1. purpose: this shares local project online at GitHub
2. open local GitHub app [on desktop]
3. from main screen elect add new local repo
    1. this process will create the origin alias over to a newly created url in GitHub 
    to this new repo.  per double dir note above- select the first project name [this 
    is the repo with the .git folder]
4. Once created this brings you into the project on the desktop app
5. it will also create a new repo on GitHub web
6. back in Eclipse.  make a change and commit and push.  it will require you to log 
into the GitHub account, but otherwise the push should then update the remote.

general dev process- ongoing maintenance and development
1. purpose: this is normal development steps after project is under version control.  
ongoing maintenance and development process.
2. xx


helpful links:
https://www.vogella.com/tutorials/EclipseGit/article.html#egitconfiguration_defaultlocation


Details
repo concept.  you can put multiple projects in a repo.  However, if you do this then if 
you decide to share the project on GitHub all the projects in that repos are combined 
together under single version control.  More likely you want them as independent 
projects in there own repo, with their own history and tracking.  To do this you need 
to setup one repo per project.

.git folder in base. this is what makes a repo a repo, this hidden folder is where all 
the version control and project history resides.


GitHub desktop view:
note that the project you established will be the default repo that opens up any time 
you re-open the desktop version.  To see other repos you can click the down button 
next to Add- and you can clone any one of the remote repos from there to your local 
instance.  you can also do this type of step in the IDE itself using the clone and/or 
download type function from GitHub to local.